---
title: Properties and Methods
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Properties and Methods

> >

When an event is triggered, the system passes along a lot of real useful information about the event that you can use.

---

# Event Properties
- [Generic Info](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/web/api/event)
- Context Sensitive
- DOM Listen
- Many Events

> >

There is a basic set of properties that are available to all events and these are stored in the event interface. You can click on this to go to the documentation for the event interface.

The information you get is context sensitive, so different events will generate different properties, but they will all share the same basic properties.

As in the case of the click event, you can ask elements to listen for events using the Document Object Model or DOM. An API that allows you to interact with the document.

An element can listen for many events, even of the same type. So different code that listen for the same event, but do different things.

---

# Basic Events
- Targeting: [target](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event/target), [currentTarget](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event/target)
- [preventDefault](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event/preventDefault)
- [timeStamp](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event/timeStamp)
- [type](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event/type)

> >

Let's go over some of the important information that all events share.

There are a couple of properties related to the element that triggered the event. The target is the element that originally triggered the event. Events are designed to move up the DOM tree from the original element that triggered the event and through the container that have the element up to the body. This is called event bubbling.


the current target is the element that is currently handling the event. As events bubble up the DOM, the current target can change.

Sometimes, you really want to control how an event triggers, so there are some items that allow you to inspect and change what should happen when an event is triggered. So, for example if you want to do some validation, before a form is submitted, you might wish to prevent the default action of the form submission.

Finally, the type property tells you what type of event was triggered.

```html
<main class="container" data-theme="light">
  <h1>JavaScript Events</h1>
  <article id="buttons">
    <button>Aneirin</button>
    <button>Charmaine</button>
    <button>Emmyloo</button>
  </article>
</main>
```

```js
document.querySelector('#buttons')
  .addEventListener('click', function (e) {
    console.log(`
      target: ${e.target.tagName}
      currentTarget: ${e.currentTarget.tagName}
      defaultPrevented: ${e.defaultPrevented}
      timeStamp: ${e.timeStamp}
      type: ${e.type}
    `);
  });
```

---

# Mouse Events
- [MouseEvent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MouseEvent)

> >

Events will return different information dependin on the type. We can take a look at the click event and examine the object returned to take a look at this.

```js
    console.log(e);
```

You can see that we get a lot more information about the position of the mouse relative to a bunch of different things, the button that was clicked and the keyboard modifiers that were pressed.