---
title: Events
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Event Basics

> >

JavaScript runs code in the order that it reads it from your file, but you can write code that runw when something happens. Those are called events


---
# Event Triggers
- Page Loads
- User mouses over link
- Video finished loading
- Form submitted

> >

Events can be triggered by your browser at any time. For example, when the page loads, when the user moves the mouse over a link, when a video has finished loading, or when a form is submitted. 

---
# Capturing Events
- Event Registration
- Atrribute handlers
- DOM Targeting
- Event Propagation

> >

If you want to take care of a task when something happens. You have to capture that event


<!-- VIDEO OVERLAY -->
That's done through a process called event registration, in other words telling the browser what to do when an event takes place, and there's several ways of doing that.

You can use attribute handlers, sometimes considered bad practice, but pretty common with frameworks.

DOM targeting is the more traditional method of doing things

Event propagration makes it possible to check for multiple events within a single call.

Let's give those a try.

---
## Atribute Handlers

> >

The first way of doing this is by using adding attribute handlers like the `onclick` handler.

Although they used to be considered a bad practice because they are hard to update, and are not reusable. They make sure sense when people break code into modules, so a lot of frameworks use this method.

```
onclick="alert('Clicked on Charmaine')"
```

---
# Targeting the DOM

You can also check for events by targeting a specific element in your page. 

You first specify which element in the dome you want to get to, and then specify which event you want to track. 

```
  <button id="charmaine">
```

In your JavaScript file, you'll need to target that element.

```
document.querySelector('#charmaine')
```

Now you can add an onclick event handler directly on JavaScript.

```
document.querySelector('#charmaine')
  .onclick = function () {
    alert('Clicked on Charmaine!');
  }
```

We used an anonymous function here, but you can also use a named function. There are lots of other types of event handlers like like mouseover, mouseout, and keypress.

---

## Adding an Event Listener

> >

There is a more convenient way to manage events that's by adding an event listener that can track what happens to an element.

The notation is a bit different.

```
document.querySelector('#charmaine')
  .addEventListener('click', function () {
    alert('clicked on Charmaine');
}, false);


```
The addeventlistener method takes three arguments, the type of event, the function to execute, and a boolean value that specifies whether the event should bubble up or not.

Don't worry about event bubbling, we'll talk about that later. For now, just add false.

There's a few benefits to this way of doing things. First, you can add multiple event listeners to the same element. Second, you can remove event listeners if you don't need them anymore. And third, you can add event listeners to elements that don't exist yet.