---
title: Creating Projects
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Creating Projects

> >

Alright, so now that we know how React works, let's take a look at how you can work with projects.

---

# Adding React to a Site

- [Installation](https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html)
- CDN [Code Sample](https://gist.github.com/gaearon/6668a1f6986742109c00a581ce704605)

> >

React has been around for so long that there's a lot of ways to work with it. You can install it into an existing page, create a new project or use a third party tool.

There's a pretty thorough installation page in the documentation with a breakdown of the different ways you can install it. The main difference is whether you want to use a tool or install it with a CDN.

The setup syntax is a bit different between the two. There are some good examples you can find that will show you how the code is different.

---

# Create React App

- [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org)
- [Create React App](https://create-react-app.dev/)

```sh
npx create-react-app my-app
```

> >

When you're building an application, you're going to need some tooling. Tooling includes a developer environment with Live Reloading and other features that make your life easier.

To use this, you'll need to have NodeJS installed, which you can find here.

Once you do that, you can use an npx command to create a new React App. Let's try this out. I'm not using CodeSpaces for this, I'm just using my local computer using a terminal.

Create React App is a nice way to add a development environment and get a decent starter template for your project.

However, it's not what I used for this project. Let's take a look at that.

---

# Vite

- [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)
- HMR
- Sass Support

```sh
npm create vite@latest my-react
```

> >

For this project, I used a new tool called Vite. It's built on top of a bundler like Webpack called Rollup.

It has a lot of newer features like Hot Module Replacement or HMR, which makes it load super fast during development.

It also has built in support for Sass out of the box, which is particularly useful for this project, since PicoCSS can be customized with Sass.

You install it with an npm command, so you need nodejs as well, but it's a little gentler on the install and gives you more options.
